I think I figured out what is missing.the story. I have outline one for you. But use it as it fits the site and positioning. As this is a bit long for an introduction, you can craft a short bio from this story if needed. And, you can guide the visitor if they are interested in reading the full story.

Here it is. Tell me if this would work. 

The Story

I learnt rammed earth when I wanted to build my house. I did. I am living in it.

My travel was not a cakewalk as my credentials were nothing to do with either soil mechanics or structural principles of buildings. The construction was not steady. I paused it often to learn or test something. That experience includes everything from understanding earth to understanding social perceptions on earthen buildings.

I wanted to tell my story and created the substack publication named “The Rammed Earth Chronicles". Writing was not my craft either. When I wrote how I do something, it became a dry how to manual. When I wrote about my intentions and how it felt while facing an obstacle, it came out as a story with no educational value. I knew there was a missing piece but could not figure out what it was. At one point, I slowed down and almost stopped writing on subtack.

A few years later, when I had a chance to write my debut on a different subject (that has nothing to do with earthen buildings), I had to learn ‘how to write’.One can see from the earliest blogs to recent ones on substack

During my journey, I almost set up a mini lab in my home to test soil properties. I would never forget the one notorious  Casagrande Apparatus, despite all the readings, I did not have a clue about it. It reminded me of when I struggled to figure out ‘Heuristics Algorthim’ during my University course..

 It took time to realize why Architect Satprem Maini of Auroville Earth Institute emphasized ‘sensibility analysis’. It took time  to understand why people with expertise chose something simple to teach you. When David Easton inspired me to build rammed earth, Julian Keable instilled confidence to get my  hands on. I learnt writing and teaching are more important than building for someone.

I learnt to write how I learnt the right moisture in different sites. And, it is true that I often find in new geographical locations the soil that says  “you really don’t have an idea right?” But the client would not have an idea about why I am testing their soil for a week with multiple buckets of water. They just want their walls to show up. It is not how it works. At least, it doesn’t work with me.

So I realized it is important to set realistic expectations before I commit to a project. Wrote a reality check. If you like to read this ongoing story, subscribe susbtack. We never know what awaits. Like in life.

- Gokul
________________
End of the story
